JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: After
hosting last
night's Democratic debate, we
review the candidates'
answers and talk with Mark
Shields and David
Brooks about the state of the
race for president.
Then: Pope Francis and Patriarch
Kirill of
the Russian Orthodox Church
meet, an historic
moment 1,000 years in the
making, since the
two churches split.
Plus: repairing the violins
played by Jewish
musicians in the Holocaust.
AMNON WEINSTEIN, Founder,
Violins of Hope:
Today, this violin is alive, is
existing,
and is going to talk to all the
world. Each
violin like that that you are
going to play,
it's for millions of people that
are dead.
That is victory. And each
concert is a victory.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Democratic
presidential
rivals moved on from Milwaukee
today, fresh
off their "PBS NewsHour" debate.
But the arguments they had on
stage continued
at long distance.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
As I pointed out last night, he
has called
the president weak, a
disappointment.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Hillary Clinton
returned to
South Carolina this afternoon
and to a line
of attack she used in last
night's debate,
that Bernie Sanders has
distanced himself
from President Obama.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: The kind
of criticism
that we've heard from Senator
Sanders about
our president I expect from
Republicans. I
do not expect from someone
running for the
Democratic nomination to succeed
President
Obama.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I),
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:
That is...
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: Madam
Secretary, that
is a low blow.
But you know what? Last I heard,
we lived
in a democratic society. Last I
heard, a United
States senator had the right to
disagree with
the president, including a
president who has
done such an extraordinary job.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Vermont
senator also defended
his plans for enlarging
government's role
to allow for free college
tuition and a single-payer
health care system.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: When today
you have massive
levels of income and wealth
inequality, when
the middle class is
disappearing, you have
the highest rate of child
poverty of almost
any major country on Earth, yes,
in my view,
the government of a democratic
society has
a moral responsibility to play a
vital role
in making sure all of our people
have a decent
standard of living.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But Clinton was
quick to charge
that Sanders' proposals are, in
effect, grandiose
and unworkable.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: The best
analysis
that I have seen, based on
Senator Sanders'
plans, is that it would probably
increase
the size of the federal
government by about
40 percent.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meanwhile, the
former secretary
of state said the price tag of
going to government-run
health care would simply be too
high.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Every
progressive
economist who has analyzed that
says that
the numbers don't add up, and
that's a promise
that cannot be kept. This is not
about math.
This is about people's lives,
and we should
level with the American people
about what
we can do to make sure they get
quality, affordable
health care.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Sanders countered
that Clinton's
claims are inaccurate, and he
talked up his
idea of higher taxes on Wall
Street and having
the wealthy to pay for his
plans. It was part
of his stepped-up pitch to
minority voters.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: Instead of
giving tax
breaks to billionaires, we are
going to create
millions of jobs for low-income
kids, so they're
not hanging out on street
corners.
And I think when you give
low-income kids
-- African-American, white,
Latino kids -- the
opportunities to get their lives
together,
they are not going to end up in
jail. They're
going to end up in the
productive economy,
which is where we want them.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Sanders moved on
to campaign
in Minnesota today.
GOV. JOHN KASICH (R-OH),
Presidential Candidate:
OK. We're spinning around. Hi.
Hi.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meanwhile, the
Republican contenders
made stops all across South
Carolina. And
Jeb Bush's campaign called in
his brother
and former President George W.
Bush to join
him in the state on Monday.
But front-runner Donald Trump
dismissed that
move during a rally in Louisiana
last night.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
And I see he is bringing his
brother in now.
He's bringing -- he tried the
mother, who
is a very nice lady, I'm sure,
but he tried
the mother. That didn't work out
so good.
Now he is bringing in his
brother. I won't
say anything.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the opposite
end of public
opinion polls, Ben Carson sought
to rally
his flagging support today at a
Faith and
Family Forum in Greenville,
South Carolina.
BEN CARSON (R), Presidential
Candidate: Bernie
Sanders and Hillary Clinton will
come along
and say, it's those evil rich
people and that's
what's causing you your problem.
No, it's
not the evil rich people. It's
the evil government,
and we need to get them under
the control.
(APPLAUSE)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Republican voters
in South
Carolina will have their say on
February 20.
The Democratic caucuses in
Nevada are that
same day.
And late today, word came that
former Virginia
Governor Jim Gilmore is dropping
out of the
Republican race. He had been a
nonfactor in
the voting thus far.
We will turn to Shields and
Brooks for full
analysis of the race on both
sides and the
Democratic debate later in the
program.
In the day's other news, Wall
Street finally
broke a five-day losing streak,
as oil prices
surged 12 percent, and bank
prices bounced
back as well. The Dow Jones
industrial average
gained 313 points to close near
15974. The
Nasdaq rose 70, and the S&P 500
added 35.
But, for the week, the Dow lost
about 1.5
percent, the S&P was down nearly
1 percent,
and the Nasdaq dropped half of a
percent.
In Pakistan, the military
announced almost
a hundred hard-core terrorists
have been arrested
in raids nationwide. A spokesman
said they
include al-Qaida militants and
other extremists
linked to major terror attacks.
The men were
taken into custody over the last
several months.
Some had allegedly plotted to
break Daniel
Pearl's killer out of prison.
The Wall Street
Journal correspondent was
murdered in 2002.
The migrant crisis in Europe
seemed to move
closer to a breaking point
today. Austria
said that it is about to reach
the maximum
number it plans to accept this
year. The Austrian
foreign minister spoke during a
visit to Macedonia,
saying his government will help
countries
in the Balkans, where the
migrants arrive
first.
SEBASTIAN KURZ, Austrian Foreign
Minister
(through translator): Macedonia
must be ready
to completely stop the entry of
migrants on
its borders, since it is the
first country
that migrants reach after
Greece. We know
it is a very difficult task, so
we have agreed
that Austria will give its
support, not only
in personnel, like police and
army, but also
in equipment as well.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meanwhile, the
European Union
warned that it will suspend its
open borders
system for two years, unless
Greece can stem
the flow of migrants within the
next three
months.
Back in this country, President
Obama is granting
national monument status to
nearly 1.8 million
acres of desert in the United
States. Today,
he designated three areas in
Southern California,
including the Castle Mountains,
the Mojave
trails, and Sand to Snow in the
Sonoran Desert.
The White House says the move
will maintain
the area's ecosystem and natural
resources.
And on this Valentine's Day
weekend, police
in Iran have declared a
crackdown. They say
retailers who run Valentine's
promotions will
be charged with promoting
decadent Western
culture. In particular, that
means no special
events at coffee or ice cream
shops where
young lovers might exchange
gifts.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
a fragile
agreement to pause the Syrian
civil war; how
Egypt's revolution has affected
women's rights;
a historic meeting 1,000 years
after the church's
great schism; Mark Shields and
David Brooks
analyze a packed week of news;
plus, violins
from the Holocaust become
instruments of hope.
Now hopes for the first steps in
the road
to peace in Syria.
The U.S. and Russia agreed on a
cease-fire
plan and a rush of humanitarian
aid to areas
of the country ravaged by years
of war. But
there are doubts the pledges
will hold.
Our chief foreign affairs
correspondent, Margaret
Warner, reports.
MARGARET WARNER: There was no
letup in the
intensity of Russian airstrikes
across Syria
today hours after major powers
made their
announcement in Munich.
Secretary of State John Kerry
and Russian
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
unveiled an
agreement by the -- quote --
"International
Syria Support Group" of 17
nations.
JOHN KERRY, U.S. Secretary of
State: This
progress has the potential,
fully implemented,
fully followed through on, to be
able to change
the daily lives of the Syrian
people.
MARGARET WARNER: Specifically,
the agreement
calls for implementing a
nationwide cessation
of hostilities a week from
today, immediate
acceleration and expansion of
humanitarian
aid deliveries into Syria, and
increased coordination
between the U.S. and Russia air
campaigns
against the Islamic State and
other terror
groups.
The U.S. had sought an immediate
full-scale
cease-fire in Syria, for the
first time since
fighting began in 2011. Kerry
acknowledged
this agreement falls well short.
JOHN KERRY: A cease-fire, in the
minds of
many of the participants in this
particular
moment, connotes something far
more permanent
and far more reflective of sort
of an end
of conflict, if you will. And it
is distinctly
not that.
MARGARET WARNER: Moreover, the
agreement allows
continued airstrikes against
ISIS and similar
terror groups. That provision
could let Russia
continuing attacking any rebel
groups fighting
against its ally, Syrian
President Bashar
al-Assad.
It's a point not lost on rebels
on the ground
today.
MAN (through translator): I do
not like the
idea of cease-fire, because it
might be for
our benefit only for a short
period of time.
But the things we're watching
right now, including
airstrikes in the northern and
southern rural
areas or in the liberated areas
that we are
in, this is not called
cease-fire.
MARGARET WARNER: As if to
confirm it, Assad
told Agence France-Presse in an
interview
yesterday, before the deal was
announced,
that he means to retake the
whole of Syria.
He said: "This is a goal we are
seeking to
achieve without any hesitation.
It makes no
sense for us to say that we will
give up any
part."
Indeed, the Syrian military and
its allies,
backed by Iran and by the
Russian airstrikes,
are now on the verge of cutting
off Aleppo,
the country's largest city. They
have severed
all but one of the rebels' vital
supply lines
to the north from Turkey, and
continue gaining
ground. That would leave Assad
stronger than
he has been in years.
All this leaves the various
rebel factions
in a precarious position. They
were not part
of the Munich agreement and must
now decide
whether to abide by what was
approved there.
Today, the main opposition
umbrella group,
which supports the cease-fire
generally, called
this one a weak agreement.
An adviser for the group
predicted the Russians
will intensify their bombing in
the coming
days, telling the "NewsHour":
"The Russians
are setting the pace on the
ground and they
still will. The agreement
weakens us and moderate
allies, while allowing Assad to
set the terms."
Meanwhile, the unrelenting human
toll mounts.
In Geneva today, officials today
convened
the first meeting of a
humanitarian task force
created under yesterday's
agreement.
JAN EGELAND, Former U.N.
Emergency Relief
Coordinator: Convoys can go very
soon, if
and when we have the permission
and the green
light from the parties. And that
is what we
expect to get now, because we
hope to see
really the action taken by the
members of
the ISSG, who have influence on
both the government
and the armed opposition groups.
MARGARET WARNER: It cannot come
too soon for
the sea of refugees. Turkey says
up to 40,000
have arrived in camps north of
Aleppo, just
inside the Syrian border. And
more are flooding
in.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Margaret Warner.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Egyptian women
were on the
front lines of the revolution
that began in
Tahrir Square. The five years
since have seen
the collective and individual
struggles of
women in Egypt become a
revolution in itself.
Tonight, special correspondent
Nick Schifrin
presents the final story in our
series 5 Years
On.
YASMINE EL-BARAMAWY, Egyptian
Activist: I
never joined any demonstrations
before. Once
I went to the square, I was
really happy.
A revolution is about hope, is
about change.
It's about being better.
MONA AL-MASRY, Wife of Muslim
Brotherhood
Member (through translator): It
was a great
victory. We managed to change
the way men
think, because they understand
that we are
now on the front line with them.
SALMA SAID, Egyptian Activist:
People were
trying to create a different
society.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Five years ago,
Egyptians did
create a different society.
Throughout the
revolution, women were at the
center of the
movement.
SALMA SAID: Women went to Tahrir
Square and
imposed this situation. We're
going to sleep
in the street like everyone else
and we are
going to organize and we are
part of the protests.
And we're going to lead protests
sometimes
and lead organizations.
NICK SCHIFRIN: In Tahrir Square,
female protesters
found a freedom they hoped the
culture would
echo. Salma Said has been
protesting for 15
years.
SALMA SAID: I have never been
surrounded with
so many Egyptian and
non-Egyptian men without
being harassed before. And, of
course, that
changed right after, even in the
protests,
because this utopia doesn't last
for even
the length of a full revolution.
It ends.
NICK SCHIFRIN: No one knows that
more than
Yasmine El-Baramawy. She joined
hundreds of
thousands of protesters in
Tahrir Square.
And then, one night in late
2012, horror.
YASMINE EL-BARAMAWY: They
attacked me, and
they stripped me and they raped
me. And I
was beaten. It was really
violent. It lasted
for 70 minutes. If it was 15
minutes, if it
was 20 minutes, it was 30
minutes, I was learning
all that time. And it felt like
I had the
experience of 30 years or 40
years in this
hour.
NICK SCHIFRIN: From late 2012
through the
middle of 2013, human rights
groups say hundreds,
perhaps thousands of female
protesters were
sexually assaulted. In at least
some cases,
activists believe the government
used violence
as a political weapon.
YASMINE EL-BARAMAWY: I didn't
doubt for a
moment that this is a
coincidence. I believe
it is organized and it happened
to many other
women that day and later.
SALMA SAID: The government was
on the television
saying, women who go to the
square deserve
this to happen.
NICK SCHIFRIN: President Abdel
Fattah El-Sisi
has tried to strike a different
tone. He visited
a sexual assault victim in
hospital. But his
government defends a
controversial procedure
called virginity tests.
NAGLAA EL-ADLY, National Council
for Women:
It is some type of protection
for women themselves.
Yes.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Naglaa El-Adly is
on the government-sponsored
National Council for Women. In
2012, virginity
tests administered by security
officials sparked
massive protests. Human rights
defenders call
them an example of sexual
assault.
These tests are being forced
upon these women.
And they don't have a choice.
And they are
physically invasive and
emotionally very difficult.
NAGLAA EL-ADLY: Yes. It's a
rule. I have to
obey the rule and the law.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Female activists
knew, if they
wanted to continue protesting,
they couldn't
rely on police for protection.
So, they started
organizations that protected one
another.
You can see one of the group's
bodyguards
in bright yellow vests trying to
defend female
protesters.
SALMA SAID: We saw horrible
things that I
never thought I would
experience. The third
anniversary of the revolution,
which is 25th
of Jan., 2013, there were 19
cases of rape
in the square. I personally went
to the hospital
with a girl who has been raped
with knives
in the square. And I never
forgot that.
NICK SCHIFRIN: But violence
against women
is not limited to protests. A
U.N. study found
99 percent of Egyptian women
suffered sexual
harassment or assault.
REEM WAEL, Director, HarassMap:
All women
face sexual harassment. It is an
endemic problem.
NICK SCHIFRIN: The women's
rights group HarassMap
is trying to fight the violence.
Its Web site
features locations where people
have been
harassed.
Reem Wael is the executive
director.
®MDNM-REEM WAEL: It helps us
monitor the
trends of sexual harassment and
use this information
to debunk all the stereotypes.
NICK SCHIFRIN: At Cairo
University, the group
helped create the first sexual
misconduct
policy in the Middle East.
On the streets, HarassMap teamed
up with Uber
to educate drivers how to avoid
harassing
customers. Drivers now stick
these harassment-free
zone stickers onto their cars.
And the group
launched a TV campaign after
Egypt passed
its first sexual harassment law
last summer.
The ads empower women to report
harassment.
They deliver the message the
fault is never
the victims.
SONDOS SHABAYEK, Theater Group
Leader: We
try to remove the stigma of the
stories.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Sondos Shabayek
tries to turn
harassment victims into
storytellers. She
leads a theater troupe that
recrates moments
of harassment on stage.
SONDOS SHABAYEK: Something that
was a source
of shame becomes a source of
empowerment.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Mona al-Masry had
found empowerment
in her own home. Her husband is
a senior member
of the Muslim Brotherhood. He is
in jail,
sentenced to death. Before the
revolution,
Muslim Brotherhood men led
protests. But with
the men silenced, women are
leading, and getting
arrested.
MONA AL-MASRY: The women of the
Muslim Brotherhood
once knew an easier life. Now we
know of a
harder, more powerful life. The
future is
beautiful and better, and we
raise our daughters
to understand this.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Do you want to
introduce me
to your children?
Her two daughters, 7-year-old
Aisha and 12-year-old
Tasbeeh, are learning her
lessons.
TASBEEH AL-MASRY, Daughter of
Muslim Brotherhood
Member (through translator): I
learned that,
when difficult things happen, I
should be
strong.
NICK SCHIFRIN: But, in this
family, mom's
students are not her daughters.
Youssef is
15.
YOUSSEF AL-MASRY, Son of Muslim
Brotherhood
Member (through translator): I
have been learning
from her since I was born. She
taught me how
to be a man.
NICK SCHIFRIN: How do you feel
when you hear
him say that? I can see you
getting emotional.
YASMINE EL-BARAMAWY: Women are
supposed to
be weaker, but I don't see it
this way at
all.
NICK SCHIFRIN: There may be no
woman, no person
who's changing society's
expectations than
Yasmine El-Baramawy. During her
attack, outnumbered
by more than a hundred, she
found strength
she didn't know she had.
YASMINE EL-BARAMAWY: I changed
from defending
to attacking. I had this feeling
that the
people must know and we can't be
silent.
NICK SCHIFRIN: But before going
public, she
had to teach that lesson to her
own family.
YASMINE EL-BARAMAWY: When I told
my father,
he said, no, don't go on TV. And
he threatened
me that he will deny I'm his
daughter.
NICK SCHIFRIN: But she was
stronger than he
was. She went on TV to become
the first Egyptian
woman to publicly describe her
rape. Later,
she became the first Egyptian
woman to prosecute
her attackers. Her father
learned the lesson
when her entire family supported
her.
YASMINE EL-BARAMAWY: They said,
your girl
is a hero. And he became proud
of me.
(LAUGHTER)
NICK SCHIFRIN: She became the
face of a global
rally against sexual assault.
Hundreds of
thousands celebrated her
courage.
YASMINE EL-BARAMAWY: Everybody
avoids talking
about this, but when I did it,
it became sort
of a power to change the
culture.
I felt the need to say, I'm
someone. I have
a job and I have a life and I do
many things,
and I have a brain I use, I have
opinions,
I have many things. I'm not just
a victim
of that.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Nick Schifrin,
"PBS NewsHour,"
Cairo.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you can watch
all three
of Nick's reports from Egypt in
our series
5 Years On. You can find them on
our World
page at PBS.org/NewsHour.
This afternoon in Havana, at
Jose Marti Airport,
a meeting 1,000 years in the
making. Pope
Francis met with Patriarch
Kirill of the Eastern
Orthodox Church, the first
meeting between
the leaders of Christianity's
two largest
churches since 1054, when a
schism split the
ancient church.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The meeting on
neutral ground
was decades in the planning. The
leaders met
for two hours behind closed
doors, and later
signed a joint declaration
decrying persecution
of Christians around the world.
We explore this historic moment,
and its impact
going forward, with His
Beatitude Metropolitan
Tikhon. He is the Orthodox
archbishop of Washington,
D.C., and the primate of the
Orthodox Church
in America, its senior-most
leader in the
U.S. and Canada. And His
Eminence Theodore
Cardinal Theodore McCarrick, the
Roman Catholic
archbishop emeritus of
Washington, D.C.
First, for someone who hasn't
been following
the 1,000-year-long rift between
these two
branches, why is this so
important, and why
did it happen now?
THE MOST BLESSED TIKHON, Primate
of the Orthodox
Church in America: There's been
attempts to
bridge that gap over the years,
none of which
have really been successful.
But, in the last, you know,
number of years,
the last few decades, the
groundwork for such
a possible discussion has been
taking place.
So, while this meeting may seem
like a somewhat
new or surprising event, it has
been discussed
with both Pope Francis'
predecessors and patriarchals,
but somehow the particular
meeting that is
happening today in Cuba didn't
take place.
But it's -- there have certainly
been relations
between the Roman Catholic and
Orthodox churches
during the past 1,000 years, but
there has
been a lot of both theological
and ecclesiastical
differences that need to be
worked out, as
well as just the simple physical
separation
that has sort of contributed to
sort of a
great divide.
So, a great opportunity now in
this time of
strife in the world to see two
great world
leaders come together and begin
more -- perhaps
more formally, a dialogue.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Your Eminence,
why now?
CARDINAL THEODORE MCCARRICK,
Archbishop of
Washington, D.C.: Well, I think
it's special
for many reasons, as the
beatitude mentioned
many of them.
But many of us think of the
Russian Orthodox
Church as the church of the
martyrs, because
during the communist age, it was
very, very
difficult. It's a great
blessing, actually,
that the Russian people kept
faithful to the
church. There were -- it wasn't
easy to be
a fervent Orthodox Christian in
the days of
communism.
And so, that's all passed now,
and the church
has come into its own. And we
see so many
of the people who suffered over
those years
coming back and very fervently
and very wonderfully
saying, we are Orthodox
Christians, we know
who we are.
So what a great time to do it.
It's a good
moment because there are a lot
of good things
happening, and it's a good
moment because
there are a lot of bad things
happening, and
we all have to stay together
more than we
ever have before.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And what are
some of the
bad things? What are the
concerns that your
two churches agree on?
THE MOST BLESSED TIKHON: Well,
certainly,
I think what you will see from
the joint declaration
from today's meeting, the
persecution of Christians
in the Middle East.
And, really, the persecution of
all religious
minorities in every context, I
think, has
been certainly a concern for the
pope, and,
you know, for Orthodox
Christians as well.
The care for our brothers,
whether they are
Christians or not, should be
something that's
foremost in our hearts.
And, you know, the Orthodox, not
only during
communist times, but in
previous, you know,
decades and centuries, have
often lived in
various contexts of persecution
and strife,
but also living together with
Muslims, for
example, in various countries,
where -- the
very places where strife
sometimes erupts
have also been places where
people have genuinely
tried to live together and be
together, regardless
of their religious or ethnic
background.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Your Eminence,
1,000 years
ago, when this split happened,
the Roman Empire
was torn in two, there were
cultural differences
that were allowed to harden,
linguistic differences.
The world is in many ways a much
smaller place
now.
What's the likelihood of
potentially a reunion
between these two churches? How
long be will
that take? Another 1,000 years?
CARDINAL THEODORE MCCARRICK: I
don't have
my crystal ball with me on that
one.
But I do have a -- we do have
the Gospels
with us, and we hear the lord
Jesus saying
that all may be one. So, our
Orthodox brethren
and sisters and Catholic people,
the Christians,
the whole world that accepts
Jesus Christ
as lord listens to him saying
that all the
time: I want you to be one.
And so, as we look around now,
with all the
troubles, with all the
difficulties, with
all the persecutions in so many
parts of the
world, this is the time to be
together. This
is the time to say, we are
together. If there's
any time when we want to get
together and
embrace each other in our faith,
that time
is now.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Your
Beatitude, it seems
that, back then, there were
political concerns.
Now there are also political
concerns, especially
in regions like Russia and the
Ukraine.
How do churches put this behind
them and say,
for the greater good, we need to
make these
compromises and we need to --
you have a 100-,
a 1,000-year horizon, not just
who's elected
next?
THE MOST BLESSED TIKHON: I think
what we see
today with the meeting with the
pope and the
patriarch is, it's a personal
meeting.
You know, regardless of all the
preparation
and the churches that sort of
are behind them
that they lead, this is a
meeting of two Christians
in a neutral location, but
coming -- taking
the time to meet together and to
just be with
one another.
Regardless of what plans might
be set in motion
for the future, whether it's
another 50 years
or 100 years, we hope that, you
know, the
dialogue will continue. But the
personal relations,
I think, are so crucial,
especially, as you
say, when the world we live in
is so small.
So, really, those personal
contexts are really
crucial.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Same question
to you.
CARDINAL THEODORE MCCARRICK:
It's a world
whose horrors call for harmony
among those
who really believe in what we
believe in.
We believe in the beatitudes. We
believe in
the position of the lord Jesus
in the world.
We believe the Holy Spirit is
inspiring us
all to come and work together
and to be together
and to have this one family.
Holy Father is always talking
about family
these days, and maybe the
greatest family
of all is the family of the
Christians. This
is the time now for us to say,
OK, we are
-- we know who we are. We are
the children
of the lord's. And we know who
our brothers
and sisters are. We could have a
wonderful
world here, and that's the world
God wants
us to have.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Your Eminence,
Your Beatitude, thanks so much
for joining
us.
CARDINAL THEODORE MCCARRICK:
Thank you.
THE MOST BLESSED TIKHON: Thank
you.
CARDINAL THEODORE MCCARRICK:
Thank you.
THE MOST BLESSED TIKHON: Thank
you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Democrats
faced off on
the debate stage last night, and
now the focus
of the race for the White House
turns to South
Carolina and Nevada.
With that, we turn to the
analysis of Shields
and Brooks. That's syndicated
columnist Mark
Shields and New York Times
columnist David
Brooks.
And welcome, gentlemen. Some of
us are back
from Milwaukee, and glad to be
back.
Mark, Tuesday -- it was only
three nights
ago -- Bernie Sanders won the
New Hampshire
primary big time. How did that
change the
race, how did it change the
dynamics, do you
think, in last night's debate?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, it changed
the race, Judy,
by guaranteeing that we will
probably have
a race in June, that there will
be a Bernie
Sanders/Hillary Clinton
competition in California.
It guaranteed Bernie Sanders
$6.5 million
in the first 19 hours after the
polls closed.
He's got a national following.
He's got a
national treasury. It puts her
at a disadvantage.
It gave him credibility.
So, going in last night, Hillary
Clinton,
on the heels of a thrashing 48
hours earlier,
was in a position of trying to
bring him back
down to earth as they head
South. And I thought
she arrived, surprisingly, with
her poise
and confidence intact.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How did you see
the dynamics
going into the debate last
night?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, going into
the debate,
it was a question of how
aggressive she would
get, and would she get overly
aggressive or
not?
I thought her demeanor,
especially in the
first half-hour, 45 minutes, was
quite good.
She can be sometimes lecturing.
But she was
more explaining, because -- you
were there,
Judy, so you might know this.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: I know this.
DAVID BROOKS: That they were --
it was a debate
over pragmatism vs. vision.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
DAVID BROOKS: And she was
saying, well, you
know, that's not reality. You
can't start
the health care system as if we
don't have
a health care system; 100
million people have
their employer health care. You
just can't
do that.
And so she was trying to explain
reality to
them. And I thought she was
quite effective.
I think, toward the end, one of
have the central
facts in the structure of the
race, the first
is pragmatism vs. his radical
vision, but
the second is, on what ground is
this debate
being fought?
And because he has such a strong
narrative
and his campaign is built around
that narrative,
his life is built around that
narrative, it's
always fought on his ground. And
she has no
narrative. And she's trying to
create one
with Obama, but that's Obama's
narrative.
And so I think, as the domestic
part went
on, he sort of gained strength
just by the
structure of the way the
argument is.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, Mark, she
does keep hammering
-- and she did it last night --
it's just
not practical to say you're
going to completely
have the government take over
health care.
It's not practical to have all
college paid
for by the government.
MARK SHIELDS: She did. She did.
And I agree
with David on her tone. Her tone
was far better
than it had been previously. It
was well-modulated.
It wasn't adversarial or
confrontational.
Judy, this is the 13th
presidential campaign
I have either worked in or
covered. And there's
a first question that every
potential White
House aspirant has to address.
Some of them
don't. It's revealed.
And that is, why do you want to
be president
and what real difference is it
going to make
if you're president, rather than
anybody else
who is running?
Bernie Sanders, as David said,
has a compelling
reason, that the deck is stacked
against people
by the rich, by the powerful.
They do it through
the campaign finance system. The
top 1 percent,
it tilts in their favor, and
working Americans
have gotten the short end of the
stick.
Hillary Clinton doesn't have a
theme. Her
campaign lacks a theme. So, it
became last
night, and it seems today, that
the argument
is not why Hillary Clinton
should be president.
It's why Bernie Sanders
shouldn't be president.
And that seems to be now the --
but it's still
a campaign that doesn't have an
overarching
theme. There's nothing there to
say, let's
march.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, when she
says, "I'm not
a one-issue candidate," David,
is that half-a-theme
for her or...
DAVID BROOKS: Well, that's
half-a-theme, but
sometimes when someone gives you
nine explanations
for why they did something, they
have got
no real explanation.
And when you're writing a book,
for example,
weirdly, a book is about one
thing, and a
campaign is the same thing. It's
about one
thing. And she doesn't have that
one thing.
What she is trying to do now is
make Obama
her one thing. But she's trying
to borrow
Obama's narrative.
And it's sort of popular. There
was a YouGov
poll of Democratic primary
voters as if Obama
was running against these two.
And the results
were Obama 56, Clinton 20,
Sanders 17. So,
he's popular. So, that is a good
thing. But
it's a substitute for her own
explanation.
And so I think the Obama moment,
to me, was
one of the crucial moments of
the night, but
it's still not a justification
for herself.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now, the Clinton
campaign,
Mark, is saying, well, we're
going into these
states, South Carolina, Nevada,
that are much
more diverse. This is going to
be much more
friendly territory for us.
Is that something that could
work in her favor?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, it certainly
should be.
And it is an explanation for
her. She's the
only candidate in history who
has been the
wife of one president, and yet
she is surgically
joined at the hip with the
incumbent president.
And President Obama is
enormously popular
among democrats everywhere,
especially among
minority Democrats, particularly
African-American
Democrats. And she's not only
got his back.
She's got his side. She's got
his foot. She's
got -- she really is running as
not simply
Barack Obama's -- his defender,
his apologist,
his protector against Bernie
Sanders' occasional
criticism of him.
So, no, I think these are -- no,
these are
-- demographically, these are
territories
which should be more welcoming
and more friendly
to her. But we don't have any
measurements
of the states prior to sort of
the earthquake
of New Hampshire and the
standoff of Iowa.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, you're
basically saying
that this theme problem that she
has may override
any advantage she could have,
David, the fact
there are more African-Americans
in South
Carolina, they're more disposed
to vote for
Clinton than for Sanders.
DAVID BROOKS: Well, it's
obviously getting
harder for Sanders. There's no
question about
that.
As many people have said on this
program,
Iowa and New Hampshire were his
best states.
Nonetheless, does he stop? I
don't think he
does. You know, if there's an
African-American
-- the first African-American
president is
running for president,
obviously, there's
going to be a surge of pride and
affiliation
in the African-American
community.
But most people, whether they're
Latino, African-American,
white or anybody else,
pocketbook issues matter.
And so if Bernie Sanders comes
in and is compelling
on pocketbook issues -- I
personally don't
think he's compelling at all --
I think he's
completely unrealistic -- but if
he is compelling
to them, then I think there will
be some spanning
of he will win Latino votes, he
will win African-American
votes.
And he doesn't have to win all
of them, but
he will win a chunk.
MARK SHIELDS: That is Tad
Devine, his principal
strategist's point, just as
David said.
Bernie doesn't have to win a
majority of African-American
votes. He just has to win enough
to join the
coalition of whites. Judy, his
strength among
young voters, everybody in the
political world
just marvels at, this
74-year-old grandfather,
kind of crotchety and all the
rest of it,
but it's remarkable.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Eighty-some
percent.
MARK SHIELDS: Eighty percent.
And he's leading
in one national -- established
national survey
35 points among voters under the
age of 35.
That is impressive. And these
are people who,
if you talk to people who have
surveyed them,
who really do feel that it's
stacked against
them, so his message is
resonating across
the generational divide.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, let's
talk for a
minute about the Republicans,
David.
Donald Trump came -- talking
about New Hampshire,
came roaring back in New
Hampshire, disappointed
in Iowa. Is he now the man to
beat? It looks
like we're just looking at one
candidate shooting
at another, shooting at another,
shooting
at another right now on the
Republican side.
DAVID BROOKS: Well, you would
have to say
he's the man to beat because he
did well in
every group.
And so he did well among
moderates, among
conservatives, among people who
are pro-immigration,
people who are anti-immigration.
So if you're
looking for a lane to get at
him, he did well
in all the groups. So you can't
find a lane.
Having said that, South Carolina
has a couple
of things that New Hampshire
doesn't have,
tons of evangelical Christians
and tons of
people who call themselves
extremely conservative.
So, Ted Cruz is looking -- he's
looking much
more promising, not only in
South Carolina,
but in the SEC primary states a
little while
later.
And so, for the next little
while, it wouldn't
be surprising if we're talking
about Cruz
and Trump, Cruz and Trump, Cruz
and Trump.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What do you see?
MARK SHIELDS: I think Trump's
victory in New
Hampshire was enormously
impressive.
It was disappointing in Iowa. He
was knocked
off-stride. He really didn't
have his game
going for the first few days,
and yet then
he started building the rallies.
The rallies
translated into enthusiasm,
translated into
votes. He carried men. He
carried women. He
carried -- he carried every age
group.
He has got 35 percent. We have
always said
he had a lower ceiling. The
ceiling is getting
higher. He got 35 percent
basically across
the board. I think -- and it
couldn't have
turned out better for them. John
Kasich, who
did the traditional New
Hampshire thing, 106
town meetings, won one out of
six votes, and
emerged to fight another day,
but not with
any great strength in the South.
So there's no establishment
figure around
whom they coalesce. The
candidate whom the
establishment most favored and
Democrats most
feared, Marco Rubio, got caught
in the debate,
where Chris Christie, looking
like an 18-wheeler
coming down the highway with his
high beams,
Marco Rubio looked like Bambi
caught in those
headlights.
And I just think whether he can
recover from
that, I'm not sure, because
everybody knew
it was going to happen. It
happened, and he
didn't handle it well.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you Rubio
right now?
And let's talk just quickly
about Jeb Bush.
He's bringing in his brother,
the former President
George W. Bush, on Monday. Could
that make
a difference for him? And how do
you see Rubio?
DAVID BROOKS: I think Rubio can
recover. I
don't think this is a recurring
moment, because
Rick Perry was genuinely not a
great communicator.
But Marco Rubio genuinely is a
good communicator.
So, as he performs well in
future debates,
I think he can cover over that
very bad moment
he had. Not saying he will, but
it's possible,
just because that's his natural
strength.
As for George Bush, people like
George Bush,
but he's not of the moment. The
moment is
an angry moment. And so I don't
think he will
help Jeb. If Jeb wants to run,
as he seems
to be doing, as the anti-Trump
-- and maybe
-- let's hope there is an
emotional recoil
-- then George W. Bush can help
him, because
he is sort of a genial, good
guy.
But I'm not sure it will -- I
just don't feel
a lot of excitement building
around George
W. Bush.
MARK SHIELDS: I want to say
something good
about Jeb Bush.
In that debate last Saturday
night, the Republican
debate, Donald Trump made one of
the more
reckless statements of all he's
made about,
I'm not going to bring back
water-boarding,
I'm going to do worse than that.
And Ted Cruz was slippery. He
wouldn't take
him on. Marco Rubio went mute.
Jeb Bush was
the one person who stood up and
said, that's
against the law of the United
States and that
is -- it's a dishonor to our
troops, it's
a dishonor to our values, and I
would uphold
it. And for that, I give him
credit.
But I agree. This is not a
surrogates year,
I don't think.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, one
other candidate
I want to ask you about on the
Republican
side is John Kasich.
Here's somebody who didn't do
well, didn't
even compete, really, David, in
Iowa, but
he came in decently, what, third
or fourth,
in New Hampshire. And now he's
really trying
to carve out a lane for himself.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes, he faces the
Southern problem,
that we go South, where he's
naturally going
to be the weakest. But if he can
hang around
to the Midwest maybe, he can do
well.
But, again, the Trump thing is
so much about
manners. And if you can have
somebody with
the opposite manners, I have to
feel there
is a group of Republicans there
who want that,
who want civility, who want
decency, someone
who won't be wearing on a dinner
party.
We used to say this about Chris
Christie.
For the first 30 minutes of the
dinner party,
you're like thrilled he's there,
and then
the last 45, really like time to
go, Chris.
And so I think -- I still think
that may happen
with Trump. People will just get
wary of the
act. I have been wrong about
this for eight
months. I realize that.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: But if there's
going to be an
alternative, it would be
somebody with Kasich's
manner, which is genial, and
then also, substantively,
pragmatic. It's not been a great
year on either
party for pragmatism and for
actually getting
stuff done. But maybe that will
kick in. It
normally does.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But is it --
quickly, how do
you read Kasich? And, Mark, how
do these guy
knows who they need to destroy
in all this?
Should they all be shooting at
Trump or should
they go after one...
(CROSSTALK)
MARK SHIELDS: Well, I do think
that the debate
in South Carolina will be
different, because...
JUDY WOODRUFF: The debate
tomorrow night,
thing Republican debate.
MARK SHIELDS: Tomorrow night.
In New Hampshire, Trump sat at
the head of
the table eating his prime rib
while the others
were having food fights among
themselves.
Now, in South Carolina, Cruz
understands,
Rubio understands they have got
to take on
Trump. Jeb Bush has taken on
Trump.
I think that will be -- the
problem is that
everybody who has taken on Trump
has paid
dearly for it up to now. But I
-- Ted Cruz's
problem is very simple. He won 8
percent of
nonevangelical voters in New
Hampshire. That's
all. And he's got to do better.
David's right. There are more
conservative
voters in South Carolina, but
he's got to
engage Trump and be willing to
go toe-to-toe
with him. And Rubio seems a
little bit liberated
since on election night he did
take full responsibility
for what happened, which in
itself is refreshing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There is so much
to look at,
look for. And we can't wait to
see it all
and we can't to have you back
next Friday.
MARK SHIELDS: Thank you so much.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mark Shields,
David Brooks,
thank you.
A collection of violins largely
silent for
seven decades is giving voice to
the horrors
of the Holocaust.
David C. Barnett from
Cleveland's Public Television
Station WVIZ's Ideastream tells
the story
behind the instruments that were
once owned
by the inmates of Nazi
concentration camps.
DAVID C. BARNETT: Stanley
Bernath has a vivid
memory of his arrival at the
Mauthausen concentration
camp in 1944. Bernath and his
fellow Jewish
prisoners were shipped to the
camp in a cattle
car, and marched to the front
gate.
STANLEY BERNATH, Holocaust
Survivor: The huge
gate with a name on top in
German, "Arbeit
Macht Frei," meaning work will
make you free.
As we entered, there is an
orchestra playing
Beethoven. It was an
unbelievable sight. People
were being killed and beaten,
and there's
an orchestra playing.
DAVID C. BARNETT: That's a story
that Israeli
violin maker Amnon Weinstein has
heard before.
The first time was 50 years ago,
when a man
brought a battered, old
instrument into his
shop that had once been played
in a death
camp.
AMNON WEINSTEIN, Founder,
Violins of Hope:
I was very afraid of it, because
that's the
point. When I opened this
violin, there was
a black powder inside, which,
for me, was
from the ashes. And I know it
from the man
who played on it. He played on
the way to
the gas chamber.
DAVID C. BARNETT: For Weinstein,
that instrument
was a chilling reminder of the
hundreds of
relatives he had lost in those
prison camps.
And for the last 20 years, he's
been on a
quest to collect and repair
violins of the
Holocaust.
Amnon Weinstein's Tel Aviv shop
is filled
with violins, violas and cellos
in various
states of repair, and he reckons
he and his
son Avshalom have restored about
60 instruments,
so far, as part of a project he
calls the
Violins of Hope.
This past fall, they packed up
about a third
of the collection for a series
of concerts
and exhibits in Cleveland.
AMNON WEINSTEIN: Bring me please
the Five
Star of David violin.
This is a violin that it took me
1.5 years
to restore from scratches,
beautiful violin,
this Five Star of David, one,
two, three,
four, and the beautiful one on
the back. Now
it's going to Cleveland to the
concert.
And the last one, Auschwitz
violin. This violin,
what we know, the man who played
on it played
in the Auschwitz orchestra, main
orchestra,
the big orchestra that was every
day in the
morning and in the evening
playing not far
away from the sign "Arbeit Macht
Frei."
DAVID C. BARNETT: Holocaust
historian Jay
Geller says the ability to play
an instrument
saved numerous prisoners from
the gas chambers.
JAY GELLER, Case Western Reserve
University:
The musicians who played in the
camp orchestras
were still prisoners, and they
were still
mistreated by the camp
authorities, but they
did have a special skill that
made them particularly
useful. So, in a sense, they
were the prize
cattle.
DAVID C. BARNETT: Geller says
these musicians
were sometimes used to entertain
the commandants
running the camps. In other
instances, the
orchestras served to lull the
inmates into
a false sense of security.
That's what happened to Hedy
Milgrom's family
members.
HEDY MILGROM, Senior Vice
President, Jewish
Federation of Cleveland: When my
mom and her
twin sister and her father and
other siblings
and nieces arrived at Auschwitz,
and they
tumbled off of this horrible
cattle car that
had been on for, I think eight
days, whatever
length of time it was, the first
thing that
they heard and saw was this
orchestra.
And my mother turned to her twin
sister and
said -- you know, took her by
the arm: "See?
It can't be all that bad. Right?
There's music
here."
DAVID C. BARNETT: The story of
these prison
camp orchestras was told in
display cases
at Cleveland's Maltz Museum of
Jewish Heritage,
the personal history of each
instrument carefully
documented, many of them
intricately ornamented.
Historian Jay Geller says that,
in Jewish
households, a decorated violin
was often a
way to get around certain
biblical restrictions
on art.
JAY GELLER: In the Jewish
tradition, the Second
Commandment of the Ten
Commandments is thou
shall not make graven images.
Historically,
this had the effect that Jews
didn't do representational
art. Jewish artistic endeavors
focused on
practical objects, especially
objects for
ritual use, but also to decorate
and embellish
objects that one might use on a
regular basis,
including the violins.
So, while these violins and
other instruments
were meant to be played as
ordinary objects,
they were also works of art.
They could be
embellished, decorated with
inlay.
DAVID C. BARNETT: Amnon
Weinstein is proud
whenever people get to see the
violins and
learn about their history, but
he's especially
happy when these instruments are
played for
live audiences.
AMNON WEINSTEIN: The violins are
to play on,
not to be like a furniture. That
is very good
for violin. You can keep them
for 500 years.
But violins have to speak. And
the most important
part of the life of a violin is
to be played
in concert. And then they can
tell stories.
DAVID C. BARNETT: The largest
violins of Hope
Concert took place in an
historic Northeast
Ohio temple, and featured 22
instruments from
the Holocaust era played by
members of the
Cleveland Orchestra.
HEDY MILGROM: There is a power
in music that
is -- that breeds resilience,
that gives people
hope.
DAVID C. BARNETT: The Violins of
Hope are
Holocaust survivors. Scarred by
the war years,
they were silent for decades.
But now they
have music to play. And Amnon
Weinstein says
each one has a story to tell.
AMNON WEINSTEIN: This violin is
alive, is
existing, and is going to talk
to all the
world. Each violin like that
that you are
going to play, it's for millions
of people
that are dead. That is victory.
And each concert
is a victory.
DAVID C. BARNETT: And Weinstein
says that's
why he continues to look for
more violins
to bring back to life.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
David C. Barnett
in Cleveland.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
online: For
exiled Syrian artist Tammam
Azzam, living
in abroad has given him a sense
loss on two
accounts, being away from his
home, while
also seeing it become destroyed
by war. So
he began to paint. The result is
an arresting
visual chronicle of the physical
and emotional
toll the war has taken.
It's part of a new exhibit. And
you can see
a gallery of that work on our
home page, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And a reminder about some
upcoming programs
from our PBS colleagues.
Gwen Ifill's preparing for a
special "Washington
Week" from Milwaukee.
Here's a preview.
GWEN IFILL: Join us tonight from
Milwaukee,
where we follow last night's
debate and this
week's primary with the best
analysis from
the nation's smartest political
reporters.
We're still on the debate stage
here at "Washington
Week" -- Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On "PBS NewsHour
Weekend" Saturday:
how the city of Chicago is using
data and
social media to target
restaurant health inspections.
That's tomorrow night on "PBS
NewsHour Weekend."
And we will be back, right here,
on Monday,
with a look at widespread
distrust among many
in Baltimore for the city's
famous hospitals.
That's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Have a great weekend. Thank you,
and good
night.